Created generics.md (#2909)
Codecademy/docs: content/go/concepts/generics/generics.md

---
Title: 'Generics'

> Description: 'Generics is a programming feature that allows you to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Generics are a programming feature that allows the programmer to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Programming Concepts'
  - 'Advance Programming'
  - 'Data-Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> **`Generics`** is a powerful feature introduced in Go 1.18 that empowers developers to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types. Generics provide a new level of expressiveness and flexibility to the language, allowing you to create functions, methods, and data structures that work seamlessly across a range of types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Generics** are a powerful feature introduced in Go 1.18 that empowers developers to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types. Generics provide a new level of expressiveness and flexibility to the language, allowing the creation of functions, methods, and data structures that work seamlessly across a range of types.
```

## Syntax and Type Parameters

> In Go **`generics`**, are defined using type parameters within function and method declarations. The syntax for declaring a generic function is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Go, generics are defined using type parameters within function and method declarations. The syntax for declaring a generic function is as follows:
```

``` go
func FunctionName[T TypeConstraint](params) ReturnType {
    // Function body
}
```

> - `T`: Represents the type parameter that can be replaced with actual types when using the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- `T`: Represents the type parameter that can be replaced with actual types when using the function.
```

- `TypeConstraint`: An optional type constraint that specifies the characteristics the type parameter must satisfy.
- `params`: The parameters that the function accepts.
- `ReturnType`: The type the function returns.

> ## Type Constraints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Type Constraints

```

> Type constraints enable you to specify requirements for the types used with generics. Common constraints include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type constraints enable the specification of requirements for the types used with generics. Common constraints include:
```

- `comparable`: Types that can be compared using comparison operators (e.g., int, string).
- `numeric`: Numeric types that support arithmetic operations.
- `order`: Types that can be compared and ordered (e.g., numeric types, strings).

> ## Benefits of Generics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benefits of Generics

```

> - `Code Reusability`: Generics allow you to create functions and data structures that can work with multiple types, reducing the need for duplicated code.
> - `Type Safety`: Compile-time type checking ensures that your generic code is type-safe and minimizes runtime errors.
> - `Modularity`: Generics promote modular design by enabling the creation of generic components that can be adapted to various contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Code Reusability: Generics allows the creation of functions and data structures that can work with multiple types, reducing the need for duplicated code.
- Type Safety: Compile-time type checking ensures that generic code is type-safe and minimizes runtime errors.
- Modularity: Generics promote modular design by enabling the creation of generic components that can be adapted to various contexts.
```

> ## Limitation and Considerations
> - `Generics` are currently limited to functions and methods. They cannot be used with structs or interfaces.
> - `Generics` in Go 1.18 have some differences compared to generics in other programming languages.
> -  Proper documentation and clear naming of type parameters are essential for code readability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limitation and Considerations

- Generics are currently limited to functions and methods. They cannot be used with structs or interfaces.
- Generics in Go 1.18 have some differences compared to generics in other programming languages.
-  Proper documentation and clear naming of type parameters are essential for code readability.
```

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example

```
We like to see an introductory sentence to an example summarizing what it does.

	"fmt"
)

// GenericMap is a versatile function that applies another function to each item in a list.
func GenericMap[T any, U any](list []T, f func(T) U) []U {
	result := make([]U, len(list))
	for i, item := range list {
		result[i] = f(item)
	}
	return result
}

func main() {
	// Mapping integers to their squares
	intList := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
	squaredList := GenericMap(intList, func(x int) int {
		return x * x
	})
	fmt.Println("Squared integers:", squaredList)

	// Mapping strings to their lengths
	stringList := []string{"apple", "banana", "cherry"}
	lengthList := GenericMap(stringList, func(s string) int {
		return len(s)
	})
	fmt.Println("String lengths:", lengthList)

	// Mapping floats to their square roots
	floatList := []float64{1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0}
	sqrtList := GenericMap(floatList, func(x float64) float64 {
		return math.Sqrt(x)
	})
	fmt.Println("Square roots:", sqrtList)

  # Explanation
  # It can take a list of numbers and give you a new list where each number is replaced by its square.
  # Or it can take a list of words and give you a new list where each word is replaced by its length.
  # It's a way to do similar things with different types of things.
}

> ```
> This will be Output:
> ``` shell

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

This example results in the following output:

``` shell
````

Squared integers: [1 4 9 16 25]
String lengths: [5 6 6]
Square roots: [1 1.4142135623730951 1.7320508075688772 2 2.23606797749979]
```

>   For comprehensive details and usage examples, refer to the official [Go generics design draft](https://go.googlesource.com/proposal/+/refs/heads/master/design/43651-type-parameters.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We generally don't link out to other documentation in Docs.

---
Title: 'Generics'
Description: 'Generics are a programming feature that allows the programmer to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Programming Concepts'
  - 'Advance Programming'
  - 'Data-Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'
---

**Generics** are a powerful feature introduced in Go 1.18 that empowers developers to write versatile and reusable code that operates on different data types. Generics provide a new level of expressiveness and flexibility to the language, allowing the creation of functions, methods, and data structures that work seamlessly across a range of types.

## Syntax and Type Parameters

In Go, generics are defined using type parameters within function and method declarations. The syntax for declaring a generic function is as follows:

> ```go

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```
